---
title: "Report of computing"
date: 2015-06-15
categories:
- Computing
author: "Yong SHANG"
tags:
- hexo theme
- responsive
- gravatar
- disqus
- google analytics
keywords:
- disqus
- google
- gravatar
autoThumbnailImage: false
thumbnailImagePosition: "top"
thumbnailImage: //d1u9biwaxjngwg.cloudfront.net/welcome-to-tranquilpeak/city-750.jpg
coverImage: //d1u9biwaxjngwg.cloudfront.net/welcome-to-tranquilpeak/city.jpg
metaAlignment: center
---
During the process of studying the mechanism and technique of those three projects Golem, iExEc, and SONM, we known that they are all devoted to establishing a decentralized computational super market.
<!--more-->

Abstract
During the process of studying the mechanism and technique of those three projects Golem, iExEc, and SONM, we known that they are all devoted to establishing a decentralized computational super market. After conducting a comparison on some important aspects, we found that there is a remarkable distinction on the model of computing among them. That is, Golem uses the distributed cloud computing, iExEc adapts the grid computing, while SONM uses the fog computing. In this report, I will show you the definition and mechanism of these distributed computing, also including some other computing system like P2P computing, volunteer computing and edge computing, most of them are easy to distinguish by mastering their characteristic, but some are extremely confusing, even on some reports or papers, they used them (like fog/edge computing) as one meaning. Based on this phenomenon, firstly I will talk about the distributed computing overall, next I will give you the strict definition of each computing, which decides that how you comprehend it and our comparison will depend on it, and then show you the details about them one by one. Finally, I will make a general comparison among them, which will make you clearer about it

1. Introduction
1.1 Background Distributed computing was firstly mentioned in the study of operating system architectures in the 1960s, [1] and after ten years, the first distributed widespread distributed systems were invented, one example of it were Ethernet. [2] During these decades, there were two important conference, one is Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC) held in 1982, the other is International Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC) held in 1985. After that, the study of distributed computing becoming its own branch of computer science. One earliest example of distributed application is APRANET, they hold the idea that people can communicate with and share their computer resources, so their most successful application was E-mail. [3] Now, the development of distributed computing is rapid, and the meaning of distributed becomes broader, next, let us get to know the definition about it. 1.2 Definition Distributed computing is a model in which components of a software are shared among multiple computers to improve efficiency and performance. This is the narrowest definition, which mainly focus on the components of software. While the boarder definition pays more attention on ''share'', not only tasks and programs, but anything, once shared among multiple systems, it is bound to be distributed computing. There is also another comprehension about distributed computing, on enterprise, they often mean that putting various steps in business processes at the most efficient places in a network of computers. For example, in a typical 3-tier model, user interface processing is performed in the PC at the user's location, business processing is done in a remote computer, and database access and processing is conducted in another computer that provides centralized access for many business processes. Typically, this kind of distributed computing use the client/server communications model
1.3 Environment
In network computing, DCE (Distributed Computing Environment) is an industry-standard software technology for setting up and managing computing and data exchange in a system of distributed computers. On the internet, third- party service providers now offer some generalized services that fit into this model. DCE uses the client/server model. Using DCE, application users can use applications and data at remote servers. Application programmers need not be aware of where their programs will run or where the data will be located
1.4 Architecture
Distributed programing typically falls into one of several basic architectures: client-server, there-tier, n-tier, or peer-to-peer. [4] 1) Client–server: Architectures where smart clients contact the server for data then format and display it to the users. Input at the client is committed back to the server when it represents a permanent change. 2) Three-tier: Architectures that move the client intelligence to a middle tier so that stateless clients can be used. This simplifies application deployment. Most web applications are three-tier. 3) n-tier: Architectures that refer typically to web applications which further forward their requests to other enterprise services. This type of application is the one most responsible for the success of application servers. 4) Peer-to-peer: Architectures where there are no special machines that provide a service or manage the network resources. Instead all responsibilities are uniformly divided among all machines, known as peers. Peers can serve both as clients and as servers.
1.5 Examples
There are several examples of distributed systems and applications of distributed computing like telecommunication networks, P2P networks on network applications, grid computing and various volunteer computing programs on parallel computation. Next, I will mainly talk about those system used in computation.
2. Some computing system
2.1 Cloud computing 2.1.1 Definition Cloud computing is a general term for the delivery of hosted services over the internet. Just like the use of electricity, cloud computing enables companies to consume a compute resource, such as virtual machine (VM), storage or an application, as a utility, rather than having to build and maintain computing infrastructures in house. Meanwhile, cloud computing makes it possible and easy for company and individual user to consume a compute resource and pay for it per use. 2.1.2 Benefit for business and end users 1) Self-service provisioning: End users can spin up compute resources for almost any type of workload on demand.
2) Elasticity: Companies can scale up as computing needs increase and scale down again as demands decrease. 3) Pay per use: Compute resources are measured at a granular level, allowing users to pay only for the resources and workloads they use. 2.1.3 Deployment model 1) Private cloud: Private cloud services are delivered from a business's data center to internal users. This model offers versatility and convenience. 2) Public cloud: In the public cloud model, a third-party provider delivers the cloud service over the internet. Public cloud services are sold on demand, typically by the minute or hour, users can get the service and pay for use. 3) Hybrid cloud: hybrid cloud is a combination of public cloud services and on - premises private cloud -- with orchestration and automation between the two. This model takes advantage of all that a public cloud infrastructure can provide while still maintaining control over mission-critical data. 2.1.4 Services categories Although cloud computing has changed over time, it has been divided into three broad service categories: infrastructure as a service(IaaS), platform as a service(PaaS) and software as a service(SaaS). [5] 1) IaaS: In an IaaS model, a third-party provider hosts hardware, software, servers, storage and other infrastructure components on behalf of its users. 2) Paas: In a PaaS model, a cloud provider delivers hardware and software tools -- usually those needed for application development -- to its users as a service. 3) Saas: In a SaaS model, a third-party provider hosts applications and makes them available to customers over the Internet, there applications are often called web services. 2.1.5 Distributed cloud Distribution cloud is the application of cloud computing technologies to interconnect data and applications served from multiple geographic locations. [6] It means that something is shared among multiple systems which may also be in different locations. Benefit of distributed cloud computing: 1) Distributed cloud speeds communications for global services and enable more responsive commutations for specific regions. 2) Cloud providers use the distributed model to enable lower latency and provide better performance for cloud services. 2.2 Grid computing 2.2.1 Definition Grid computing is a computing model involving a distributed architecture of large numbers of computers connected to solve a complex problem
